time and time again people have asked me
how i managed to stay
so motivated seemingly all of the time
how do i get motivated
motivation is so important not only for
avoiding procrastination but for
actually enjoying your work and finding
it
exciting i think motivation is the core
of focused work and study trying to find
a way to get yourself motivated is i
think really essential for students
so i'm going to be separating this video
into long and short-term motivation
this video is going to be mostly
weighted towards short-term motivation
but i'm going to start
with long-term okay so let's start with
long-term motivation
i think the most important thing for
finding long-term motivation
is finding your why why
are you doing this why do you want to do
this why is this important to you i've
spoken before about
an ideas book and i cannot recommend
these enough
every single morning i will get a nice
pan because i just think writing with a
nice pen
makes the thing your writing seem more
important and i will add to the list of
things that i would like to do
at some point this is a chance for me to
be really really ambitious
and just think about random cool things
that i want to do
projects i might want to try note that
these things aren't necessarily
things i can do tomorrow or even next
year but these are things that at some
point in my life i would love to do
and after adding to it i will also read
through the whole of my list like every
single item
and reading through these just gets me
motivated and makes me feel excited
and i will see if there is anything i
can tangibly start to work towards on
that list
and i will just add something from that
to my to-do list for the day so that i
am working to achieve my goals every
single day
understanding your personal goals for
your life is so so important i think
for sustaining long-term motivation so
once you know these long-term goals
think about how studying and how
whatever activity
you're finding it hard to motivate
yourself to do is helping you to achieve
these long-term goals and also make a
note of that in your ideas book
now let's move on to short-term
motivation long-term motivation is
obviously
essential but i want to focus on
short-term motivation
and how you can find motivation to study
every single day and
stop feeling that resistance and
actually start feeling excited about
doing it
and i think that comes more in the realm
of short-term motivation
so this video is going to be separated
into five sections
number one turning work into play number
two ways to make studying fun
number three to-do lists number four
taking breaks
and number five ideas of things to
actually get you motivated
okay number one turning work into play
the really really important thing is to
find enjoyment in the tasks you are
doing
if you can do this then you can avoid
procrastination and actually be excited
to sit down and do that work
this is so much easier said than done
but you need to focus
on turning work into play so this lies
in line with the sawyer effect which i
have spoken about many many times on my
channel
basically the story effect says that we
always want to do play
and we never want to do work but that
it's possible to turn work
into play if you want to hear the ins
and outs of this then i would recommend
watching my video all about study breaks
so typically we associate studying with
work but it's so much more sustainable
and so much more beneficial if we view
it as play
because you want work to be something
that you're excited about i would say
that i'm in a position where
studying has become play for me and when
i sit down to do some work to do some
studying i don't view it as
work but i view it as something to be
excited about something to enjoy i
really do think that if i didn't view it
in this way
i wouldn't be able to study as hard as i
do so i know that the next obvious
question
is how do i enjoy studying here are a
few things you can try to
hopefully make studying more enjoyable
first of all make sure that you have a
good study space really put some time
into making it somewhere that you want
to sit and do work
because because if you enjoy being in
the space you can motivate yourself more
easily to go
and work in that space so light some
candles position yourself in front of a
window if you can
pick some fresh flowers put up
photographs after every study session
give yourself the time
and the space to look into the things
that you found really interesting
think about how you can apply what
you're learning to the real world
also try to think of some really cool
unique study methods that you can try so
for example when i was at gcse i would
make board games to study with
between tasks so you don't get bored
if you can switch up the kind of tasks
that you're doing
then you're less likely to find it
repetitive
i like to focus on keeping my brain
stimulated and
for me that means that i can't do loads
of passive revision for long periods of
time i need to make sure that i
fragment that with active learning so
for example i'm going from testing
myself on notes
to reading some of the book i also find
personally that when i switch up my
tasks i managed to get more things
accomplished and when i review my day i
feel like i've got a lot more done
because i've focused on a few different
things i from experience i'd find that
this just leads to me being more
motivated because
if at midday i can look at my list and
realize that i've revised for three
different subjects
it feels like i've got a lot done and
this spurs me on to
keep on being productive in the
afternoon
to-do lists are also a great way to get
you motivated
and excited to work we're a to-do list
culture
we love a good to-do list and taking
something off when we've completed it i
feel like a lot of us just
love to do lists i know i am just
slightly like marginally obsessed with
them
i really do think that they can sustain
motivation you've probably heard me
quote this before but jeff saden
in his book the motivation myth said
success leads to motivation
leads to success leads to more
motivation basically this is the idea
that little successes motivate us to
keep on going
and so if we want to create motivation
for ourselves we need to start with a
benchmark of
some kind of success this is why it's
not actually a bad idea to
add to your to-do list things that
you've already accomplished i know that
so many of us
are guilty of this i know i do it i'll
write a to-do list in the morning and
one of the to-do's will be
wake up which i have definitely already
done because i am up and writing my
to-do list
but being able to tick that and actually
having a few things on your list that
you're already ticking
is a success which can actually lead you
to be more motivated and thus more
productive that day
every time we tick something off we
think i am so productive
not
another great thing about to-do lists is
during the day you can
look at those boxes that you've taken
looked at the things you've completed
and feel like you are really getting
somewhere and you're getting stuff done
to-do lists keep you accountable and
they mean that you're more likely to
keep on working
and so as a result i would recommend
starting your study sessions with an
easy task
so one that you are most excited about
pick the most
exciting fun task on your to-do list and
do that one first
and i know lots of people recommend
start with your hardest task of the day
in the morning
but i would say even though i think
having the really big
meaty tasks at the beginning of the day
is a really good idea
it's better to start with a with an
easier
more fun task because you're less likely
to procrastinate on that task and also
you're hopefully going to get it done
fairly quickly so let's say you wake up
eight you get this fun exciting task
done in an hour that means that by nine
you can look at your to-do list and see
that you've accomplished something
actually
quite substantial and that can motivate
you going into the harder
more daunting tasks of the day number
three
taking study breaks i've done a whole
video on study breaks but in this video
i wanted to focus on them in terms of
motivation and using breaks to help you
sustain and build motivation so it makes
sense to
take your break when you've finished
your task right wrong
don't take your break when you've just
finished a massive mammoth task or when
you've reached a really tricky
maths question that you just can't seem
to crack keep
on going basically you should take a
break at the least
natural feeling point the best thing you
can do to make sure that you come back
to your desk after your break
feeling motivated and ready to go is
stopping at a place where
you are really excited to keep on going
when you're enjoying the work
where you're finding it really fun where
you're finding it interesting where
you're just about to go onto that part
which you've been really looking forward
to
right before that take a break this
means that during your break you're not
going to want to procrastinate because
you are so excited to get back to that
task
number four motivational forces this is
the fourth and final section of the
video and hopefully this is going to
actually be the most useful
i really really recommend keeping a list
of the things that get you motivated
in your ideas book i have a list of
things that get me motivated in here
this is an accumulation of books
segments from tv shows interviews
scents activities exercises that help me
to get into a state of mind where i am
motivated to get on with my work
and i cannot recommend this enough this
way when you're feeling really
unmotivated
you can just have a quick look through
this list and you can try a few things
on it
hopefully it's going to help you get
into that motivated state which it has
helped you get into in the past quick
side note by the way choose a scent
which you are going to associate with
productivity
and motivation when you're feeling
motivated light this candle
spray the spray obviously this won't
stop working for maybe a few weeks or
even a month but if you do it right
eventually you'll get to a point where
you can just smell that scent and you
will
start to feel more motivated because
your brain has associated that scent
with that feeling of motivation
okay so here are just a few things to
consider these are things that might
motivate you they might not i just
wanted to provide some examples so you
can reflect on whether any of these
motivate you and maybe add them onto
your motivation list
first of all exercise journaling
cozy rainy days are some of the best
things for getting me motivated to study
studying with someone can also be really
great so if you have a sibling
or you could facetime a friend i also
find myself always getting super
motivated when i chat with my friends
about academics
you could also watch study with me
videos in their place reading a good
book with an inspirational protagonist
i find that whenever i wear something
nice i am more motivated like i wear a
nice outfit
meditating having a cold shower
getting some fresh air drinking a large
glass of water
also listening to film soundtracks so
specifically for me i find the theory of
everything room
and extremely loud and incredibly close
help me to get motivated
okay so thank you so much for watching
this video i hope that it was useful
i hope it helps you to be more motivated
and keep up with levels of motivation i
know that it's so hard to be motivated
at the moment
and i really appreciate that and it is
impossible to be motivated every single
second of every single day but hopefully
these things can help you to increase
your motivation
so thank you so much for watching and i
hope that you have a productive week
you